
# Out of the box Restful API for grails. 

This is a library and [Grails] plugin to enhance [Gorm] to provide and expose a somewhat _opinionated_, ==well documented restful API== with intelligent out of the box defaults and minimal tweaking. It also keeps it easy to configure and customize on the fly at a deployed client site without the need to recompile.

While its somewhat opinionated it frames out Rest best practices outlined in the [Rest Design Principles] section.  It uses the [OpenAPI] spec (formerly [Swagger]) as well as how it maps the Gorm domains into that spec. Its accepts and returns only JSON and eschews the complexity of XML

While REST is not CRUD a lot of it really is. This project aims to makes it easy and quick to setup the common use cases that are really just CRUD Controller over the [GORM] domains so you can focus on the unique business logic use cases that are hard.

**Key features and goals of this plugin include:**

- **The simple stuff should be simple and automatic**
- DRY : Don't repeat yourself.
- Autogenerated code is evil. This includes tests
- Use AST, traits and tanspiling where possible 

---

- [ ] Near zero configuration to expose [Swagger] documented resources (the Gorm domains)
- [ ]  Rely on the domain's contraints as much as possible for configurations and docs.
- [ ]  Out of the box CRUD Controller modified from Grails [@Resource annotation and RestfulController](http://docs.grails.org/latest/guide/REST.html#domainResources) that can delegate to transactional Services (DAOs Repositories, Data Services) flavored services based on naming convention or configuration. Uses the [DAO] plugin by deafault for this.
- [ ]  Custom schema selects for retruned JSON fields that can be confiugured at runtime by a customer (does not require recompiling views)
- [ ]  Consistent documented use of HTTP status codes and headers
- [ ]  Uses [cache-headers](https://github.com/grails-plugins/cache-headers) for faster loading
- [ ]  Use [Services/DAO/Repository] pattern by defualt to keep the CRUD code in its own transactional service
- [ ]  Ability to 'query by POST' (to allow query criteria to be provided within the request body)
- [ ]  Intelligent defaults for security plugin with OATH and JWT.
- [ ]  Tools to ease GEB functional tests with Spock
- [ ]  Extensive regression tests


## Install

```groovy

```

  [OpenAPI]: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification
  [OAS]: https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification
  [Swagger]: https://swagger.io/announcing-openapi-3-0/



